+++
abstract = "This paper performs a complete study on performance and energy efficiency of biomedical codes when accelerated on GPUs (Graphics Processing Units). We have selected a benchmark composed of three different building blocks which constitute the pillars of four popular biomedical applications: Q-norm, for the quantile normalization of gene expressions, reg f3d, for the registration of 3D images within the NiftyReg library, bedpostx (from the FSL neuroimaging package) and a multi-tensor tractography for the analysis of diffusion images. We try to identify (1) potential scenarios where performance per watt can be optimal in large-scale biomedical applications, and (2) the ideal GPU platform among a wide range of models, including low power Tegras, popular GeForces and high-end Titans. Experimental results conclude that data locality and arithmetic intensity represent the most rewarding ways on the road to high performance bioinformatics when power is a major concern."

authors = ["J. Pérez", "A. Rodríguez", "J.F. Chico", "D. López-Rodríguez", "M. Ujaldón"]
date = "2018-12-01"
image_preview = ""
math = true
publication_types = ["2"]
publication = "In *Sustainable Computing: Informatics and Systems*"
publication_short = ""
selected = false
title = "Energy-aware acceleration on GPUs: Findings on a bioinformatics benchmark"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_pdf = "pdf/2018-gpu.pdf"
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""

[[url_custom]]
name = "View Journal Article"
url = "https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2210537917302822"

# Optional featured image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
